translator-onboarding guide (#9431)
wagtail/wagtail: docs/contributing/translations.md

# Translations
Wagtail uses Transifex to translate the content for the admin interface. Our goal is to ensure that Wagtail can be used by those who speak many different languages. Translation of admin content is a great way to contribute without needing to know how to write code.

> 

Reviewer: might be good to add a callout with a link to the `i18n` page - so people do not get confused.

- Join [Slack](https://wagtail.org/slack/). This is the major channel of communication at Wagtail
- Search through the channels to join the translator channel and introduce yourself
- Request access to become a member of the language team you want to work with on Slack. Mention your Transifex username when you make this request
-	Go to [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/)
-	Click on start for free
-	Fill in your Username, Email and Password
-	Agree to the terms and conditions
-	Click on free trial or join an existing organisation
-	Join [Wagtail](https://www.transifex.com/torchbox/wagtail/dashboard/)
-	A list of project languages is provided on the [Wagtail](transifex.com\torchbox\wagtail\dashboard\) dashboard
-	A view resources button appears when you hover over the ready to use part on the right side of the page
-	Click on the button to get access to the resources available
-	This takes you to the language section
-	This page has a translation panel on the right and a list of strings to be translated on the left
-	To translate a project, select it and enter your translation in the translation panel
-	Save the translation using the translation button on the panel

> Here is a [Wagtail Space US 2020 Lightning Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sLI_AuOMUQw&t=17s) that walks through using Transifex step-by-step.

Reviewer: Let's put this and a few other links (see the original issue) in an additional resources section.

# Translations

> Wagtail uses Transifex to translate the content for the admin interface. Our goal is to ensure that Wagtail can be used by those who speak many different languages. Translation of admin content is a great way to contribute without needing to know how to write code.

Reviewer 2: I'd go for 'the admin interface' - chrome is a bit of a specialist term and I don't think we've used it elsewhere.

> Wagtail uses Transifex to translate the content for the admin interface. Our goal is to ensure that Wagtail can be used by those who speak many different languages. Translation of admin content is a great way to contribute without needing to know how to write code.

Reviewer: Agreed, I've never heard of us using 'chrome' to refer to the admin interface anywhere in our current docs.

## Translation workflow 
Translations from Transifex are only integrated into the Wagtail repository at the time of a new release. When a release is close to being ready there will be a RC (Release Candidate) for the upcoming version and the translations will be exported to Transifex.

During this RC period, usually around two weeks, there will be a chance for all the translators to update and add new translations. We will also notify the `#translators` channel in the Watail slack group at this time.

These new translations are imported into Wagtail for any subsequent RC and the final release.

> If translations reach a threshold of about 80% we communicate that this is an officially supported translation in the docs.

Reviewer 2: I don't think there's anything in the docs that lists the 'official' translations. Languages over 90% completion are added to the default list of languages that users can choose from, though - see [WAGTAIL_PERMITTED_LANGUAGES](https://docs.wagtail.org/en/stable/reference/settings.html#wagtailadmin-permitted-languages)

Author: Hi @gasman, I think we are both trying to drive the same message across that is if the translation  of a particular language is about 80% the language will be added .

Reviewer 2: Yes, but we add it to the list inside Wagtail itself ([here, to be specific](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/blob/df0b36fdb7871b9e32cebdbd8be3f82022139c7c/wagtail/admin/localization.py#L8)...) - we don't communicate the list of supported languages anywhere in the docs.

Author: Oh okay.
So it should be "If translations reach a threshold of about 80% , languages are added to the default list of languages users can choose from." ?

## What is Transifex
 Wagtail is localised (translated) using [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/), a web platform that helps organisations coordinate translation projects.

> ## To help out in translating wagtail here's what you will do

Reviewer 3: Wagtail, capital W

Reviewer: Alternatively, try to avoid too many references to 'Wagtail' within this page as a whole.

```suggestion
## How to contribute translations
```

```suggestion
## How to help out with translations
```

Remember, people have come to the Wagtail documentation, adding Wagtail to titles is often just noise.

> - Introduce yourself on [slack]( https://wagtailcms.slack.com/archives/CTKN6UXKN) to join fellow translators on slack.

Reviewer 3: slack -> Slack

And how to join Slack? I guess we need to add `https://wagtail.org/slack/`. This is the stable redirect to join Slack.

Author: The slack link in the document will take the user to the translator channel on slack. Are you suggesting I change it to wagtails' slack channel?

Reviewer: I agree with @allcaps on this one. We should just use the generic Slack link we use everywhere and then advise the translators to join the `#translators` channel. 

Deep linking creates problems, the link may change, Slack may not be used one day, it may not work well for web vs app users.

> - Request access to become a member of the language team you want to work with on slack. Mention your Transifex username when you make this request

Reviewer 3: Slack, capital S.

Author: Hi @allcaps , thank you for the review

-	Go to [Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/)
-	Click on start for free
-	Fill in your Username, Email and Password
-	Agree to the terms and conditions
-	Click on free trial or join an existing organisation

> -	Join [wagtail](https://www.transifex.com/torchbox/wagtail/dashboard/)

Reviewer 3: W

> -	A list of project languages is provided on the [wagtail](transifex.com\torchbox\wagtail\dashboard\) dashboard

Reviewer 3: Wagtail, capital W

-	A view resources button appears when you hover over the ready to use part on the right side of the page
-	Click on the button to get access to the resources available
-	This takes you to the language section
-	This page has a translation panel on the right and a list of strings to be translated on the left
-	To translate a project, select it and enter your translation in the translation panel
-	Save the translation using the translation button on the panel

> Here is a [link](https://youtu.be/sLI_AuOMUQw?t=17) to a video that walks you through using Transifex step-by-step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a [Wagtail Space US 2020 Lightning Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sLI_AuOMUQw&t=17s) that walks through using Transifex step-by-step.
```

Links should not use the word 'link' or 'here' but rather be super clear where the link is going to, also best to use the closest canonical URL (not a shortened URL).

> 

Reviewer 3: `.` add period.

Remove blank lines.
